Expose utilities as plugins to make them available in 3rd-party DLLs. Updated DLL docs. (#11097)
ckeditor/ckeditor5: docs/builds/guides/development/dll-builds-collaboration-features.md

---
menu-title: DLL builds for CKEditor 5 Collaboration Features
category: builds-development
order: 40
modified_at: 2022-02-21
---

# CKEditor 5 DLL builds for CKEditor 5 Collaboration Features

<info-box>
    This guide discusses using a DLL build together with CKEditor 5 Collaboration Features and is supplemental to the {@link builds/guides/development/dll-builds CKEditor 5 DLL builds guide}.

    Make sure to read the {@link builds/guides/development/dll-builds base guide} first before proceeding.
</info-box>

## Anatomy of a DLL build with CKEditor 5 collaboration features

A DLL build of the editor consists of the following parts:

> * **Base DLL build**. It is a single JavaScript file that combines the contents of several core CKEditor 5 packages: `utils`, `core`, `engine`, `ui`, `clipboard`, `enter`, `paragraph`, `select-all`, `typing`, `undo`, `upload`, and `widget`. These packages are either the framework core, or are features used by nearly all editor installations (`ckeditor5` on npm).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Base DLL build**. It is a single JavaScript file that combines the contents of several core CKEditor 5 packages: `utils`, `core`, `engine`, `ui`, `clipboard`, `enter`, `paragraph`, `select-all`, `typing`, `undo`, `upload`, and `widget`. These packages are either the framework core, or are features used by nearly all editor installations. The build is available on NPM in `ckeditor5` package.
```

Reviewer: How about wording it this way. The way it is worded now is not clear, the note "(`ckeditor5` on npm)" is sudden and is not connected with the previous sentence. If you agree with me (I might not understood something), please rewrite it in other places too.

Reviewer: Or you can even leave it as it is in other places, at it will be now more clear what "(\`ckeditor5-collaboration\` on NPM)" means.

* **Base DLL build for CKEditor 5 Collaboration Features**. It is a single JavaScript file that includes all necessary files for the collaboration features packages and extends the base DLL for CKEditor 5 (`ckeditor5-collaboration` on NPM).
* **DLL-compatible package builds**. Every package that is not a part of the base DLL builds, is built into a DLL-compatible JavaScript file (`@ckeditor/ckeditor5-*` on NPM). The CKEditor 5 Collaboration Features DLL builds are available in this format as well.

> In order to create an editor, you need to use the two base DLL builds plus several DLL-compatible package builds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to create an editor with collaboration features, you need to use the two base DLL builds plus a DLL-compatible package build for each plugin you would like to include.
```

Reviewer 2: "a DLL-compatible package build for each plugin you would like to include" would be my suggestion rather.

Reviewer: Hehe, I had it like this initially :).
